

Quiz


1 - 1
Feature Extraction is the process of mapping
2 Marks
textual data to real-valued bags
complexity
real-valued vectors to texts
x textual data to real-valued vectors

The correct answer is:
✅ "textual data to real-valued vectors"

Explanation: Feature extraction in NLP involves converting text data into numerical representations (real-valued vectors) that machine learning models can process. Examples include Bag of Words (BoW), TF-IDF, and Word Embeddings (Word2Vec, BERT). 

2 - 2
Bag of Words in text preprocessing is used for:
2 Marks
POS Tagging
x Extracting features from sentences
Stemming
none of the above

The correct answer is:
✅ "Extracting features from sentences"

Explanation:
Bag of Words (BoW) is a feature extraction technique used in text preprocessing. It converts text into numerical features by representing each sentence/document as a vector of word occurrences. It does not perform POS tagging or stemming but helps in text classification, sentiment analysis, and NLP tasks. 


3 - 3
Bag of Words approach ignores the order of words and uses word counts as their basis.
2 Marks
x TRUE
FALSE

TRUE

Explanation:
The Bag of Words (BoW) approach ignores the order of words and represents text only based on word occurrences (counts or presence/absence of words). This means that BoW does not capture sentence structure, meaning, or context—just the frequency of words in a document.

✔ Example:

"The movie was great"
"Great was the movie"
Both sentences will have the same BoW representation despite having different word orders. 


4 - 4
Converting tokens to featured columns with counts is called
2 Marks
x Text Vectorization
Text processing
Tokenization
All of the above

"Text Vectorization"

Explanation:
Text Vectorization is the process of converting text tokens (words) into numerical feature representations. This is essential for machine learning models to process textual data.

✔ Example:

Bag of Words (BoW) → Converts text into a matrix of word counts.
TF-IDF (Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency) → Assigns weights to words based on importance.
Word Embeddings (Word2Vec, GloVe, BERT) → Represents words as dense numerical vectors.
Text Vectorization = Feature Engineering for NLP! 

5 - 5
What are the drawbacks of bag of words model?
2 Marks
Bag of words always gives correct answer
x Bag of words model often results in a large set of features, many of which are useless
Complicated coding
None of the above

 "Bag of words model often results in a large set of features, many of which are useless"

Explanation:
The Bag of Words (BoW) model has several drawbacks:
🔹 Ignores word order & context → It only considers word frequency, losing semantic meaning.
🔹 High dimensionality → It creates large feature vectors, making computations expensive.
🔹 Sparse matrix → Most values in the feature matrix are zeros, leading to inefficiency.
🔹 Sensitive to irrelevant words → Common but unimportant words (like "the", "is") can dominate unless handled properly.

Solution? Use TF-IDF to weigh words by importance or use word embeddings (Word2Vec, BERT) to capture meaning!


6 - 6
Which of the following functions converts a collection of raw documents to a matrix of TF-IDF features?
2 Marks
build_analyzer()
get_feature_names()
x TfidfVectorizer()
All of the above


"TfidfVectorizer()"

Explanation:
TfidfVectorizer() is a function from sklearn.feature_extraction.text that converts raw text documents into a matrix of TF-IDF features. It helps in transforming text into numerical values based on word importance in the document.

✔ Example:

from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import TfidfVectorizer

documents = ["This is an example sentence", "This is another example"]
vectorizer = TfidfVectorizer()
tfidf_matrix = vectorizer.fit_transform(documents)

print(tfidf_matrix.toarray())  # Matrix of TF-IDF scores
TF-IDF helps filter out less important words while keeping meaningful terms!


7 - Which of the following is not a pre-processing technique?
2 Marks
Converting to Lowercase
Removing Punctuations
Removal of Stop Words
x Sentiment Analysis

 "Sentiment Analysis"

Explanation:
Sentiment Analysis is not a pre-processing technique; it is an NLP task that analyzes text to determine whether it is positive, negative, or neutral.

Pre-processing techniques include:
✔ Converting to Lowercase → Ensures consistency in text processing.
✔ Removing Punctuations → Helps clean text for analysis.
✔ Removal of Stop Words → Removes common words (e.g., "the", "is", "and") that don't contribute to meaning.

Pre-processing cleans text, while Sentiment Analysis extracts emotions from text!

8 - Which module/package is used to extract features in a format supported by machine learning algorithms?
2 Marks
feature_extraction()
x sklearn.feature_extraction
sklearn.feature_extraction_hybrid()
sklearn.feature()

 "sklearn.feature_extraction"

Explanation:
The sklearn.feature_extraction module in scikit-learn provides methods to convert raw text into numerical features that machine learning models can process.

Common Feature Extraction Methods in sklearn.feature_extraction:
✔ CountVectorizer() → Converts text into a Bag of Words (BoW) model.
✔ TfidfVectorizer() → Converts text into TF-IDF features.
✔ DictVectorizer() → Converts dictionaries into feature vectors.

sklearn.feature_extraction is widely used for NLP, text classification, and machine learning pipelines!


9 - 9
TF-IDF is one of the most important techniques used for _________ to represent how important a specific word or phrase is to a given document.
2 Marks
tokenization
information retrieval
deleting texts
None of the above

"information retrieval"

Explanation:
TF-IDF (Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency) is widely used in information retrieval to determine the importance of words in a document relative to a collection (corpus).

✔ Why?

It reduces the weight of common words (e.g., "the", "is") across all documents.
It increases the importance of unique words relevant to a specific document.
Used in search engines (Google, Elasticsearch) to rank relevant documents.
TF-IDF enhances search accuracy, text classification, and NLP tasks!



10  - 10
TF is a function of the frequency of terms appearing in the document.
2 Marks
x TRUE
FALSE

TRUE

Explanation:
📌 Term Frequency (TF) measures how often a word appears in a document relative to the total number of words.

✔ Formula:

TF(t,d) =  Total words in document d  / Number of times term t appears in document d
​
 
✔ Example:

Document: "The movie was amazing, amazing story!"
Word "amazing" appears 2 times in a document with 6 words.
TF("amazing") = 2 / 6 = 0.33
TF is used in TF-IDF and other NLP models to weigh word importance in text!





